Q : Read about IP address, port, HTTP methods, MAC address ?

A :
    IP address  : Internet Protocol Address
                  A unique numerical identifier for every device connected to a network for communication.
                  Logical address of our network hardware by which other devices identify it in a network
                  It servers two main functions. They are Identifing the Host/network & Location of host in the network.
                  Its essential for proper functioning because it enable device to send & receive data from each other.
                  2 types of Ip address ae there namely : IPv4(32bit & most widely used; expressed in series of 4 decimal numbers ranging from 0 to 255 separated by dots) & 
                                                        : IPv6 (128 bit hexadecimal;expressed as a series of hexadecimal numbers separated by colons )
                  IP address is provided by admin of system or network administrator
                  ipconfig command can be used to find IP address.
                  used to identify devices on a network and to route traffic between networks. The IP addresses ensure that the data gets from its original source reaches its final destination and it is also called “end-to-end” delivery of data.

    Mac address : Media Acess Control Addres
                  Its a unique 12-character alphanumeric attribute that is used to identify individual electronic devices on a network.
                  First 6 character of alphanumeric representation defines the identify the manufacturer, called the OUI (Organizational Unique Identifier) and the last 6 digits represents Network Interface Controller, which is assigned by the manufacturer. 
                  Colon-Hexadecimal notation(:) is used by Linux OS and Period-separated Hexadecimal notation(.) is used by Cisco Systems.  
                  Colon-Hexadecimal notation deifned in (-).
                  The primary function of MAC addresses is to manage how data is transported from one network node to another on a direct, physical basis – this is also referred to as “hop to hop” delivery.        

                  In gerneral,Mac & Ip  : Layer 2 uses MAC addresses and is responsible for packet delivery from hop to hop.
                                          Layer 3 uses IP addresses and is responsible for packet delivery from end to end. 

    port        : Identifies a specific process to which an Internet or other network message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server.
                  Ports are identified for each protocol and It is considered as a communication endpoint.
                  In otherwords, Port numbers identify a particular application or service on a system.
                  Ports are represented by 16-bit numbers.
                  Port numbers are logical interfaces used by communication protocols.
                  Port number for application is provided by kernel of Operating System.
                  netstat  command can be used to find Network Statistics Including Available TCP Ports.
                  80 for HTTP, 123 for NTP, 67 and 68 for DHCP traffic, 22 for SSH etc.

    Http methods: HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired action to be performed for a given resource.
                  Namely : Mainly used are POST, GET, PUT , PATCH and DELETE. Others are HEAD, OPTIONS, CONNECT